---
option: SpiNNaker cfg settings
layout: default
published: true
---
CFG Settings and Reports
========================
<!-- 
This file is autogenerated do not edit!
Created by spinn_utilities/configs/config_documentor.py
Based on the default cfg files
See notes section at the bottom of this file.
-->
This guide covers the cfg settings and the reports created.
* CFG Sections
  * [Logging](#Logging)
  * [Machine](#Machine)
  * [Database](#Database)
  * [Mapping](#Mapping)
  * [Reports](#Reports)
  * [Buffers](#Buffers)
  * [Mode](#Mode)
  * [EnergyMonitor](#EnergyMonitor)
  * [Java](#Java)
  * [Simulation](#Simulation)
  * [Recording](#Recording)
* [Report Files](#report_files)
* [Notes for Developers](#notes)
# <a name="Logging"></a> Logging
This section controls the logger

* [default](#default)
* [instantiate](#instantiate)
### <a name="default"></a> default
Default: __info__

Logging Level (in lower case) to be used.

### <a name="instantiate"></a> instantiate
Default: __True__

Determines if logging is done or not

# <a name="Machine"></a> Machine
This section controls getting a spinnaker machine

* [auto_detect_bmp](#auto_detect_bmp)
* [bmp_names](#bmp_names)
* [clear_routing_tables](#clear_routing_tables)
* [clear_tags](#clear_tags)
* [disable_advanced_monitor_usage_for_data_in](#disable_advanced_monitor_usage_for_data_in)
* [down_chips](#down_chips)
* [down_cores](#down_cores)
* [down_links](#down_links)
* [enable_advanced_monitor_support](#enable_advanced_monitor_support)
* [enable_reinjection](#enable_reinjection)
* [height](#height)
* [ignore_bad_ethernets](#ignore_bad_ethernets)
* [json_path](#json_path)
* [machine_name](#machine_name)
* [machine_spec_file](#machine_spec_file)
* [max_machine_core](#max_machine_core)
* [max_sdram_allowed_per_chip](#max_sdram_allowed_per_chip)
* [post_simulation_overrun_before_error](#post_simulation_overrun_before_error)
* [remote_spinnaker_url](#remote_spinnaker_url)
* [repair_machine](#repair_machine)
* [report_waiting_logs](#report_waiting_logs)
* [reset_machine_on_startup](#reset_machine_on_startup)
* [simulation_time_step](#simulation_time_step)
* [spalloc_avoid_boards](#spalloc_avoid_boards)
* [spalloc_group](#spalloc_group)
* [spalloc_machine](#spalloc_machine)
* [spalloc_port](#spalloc_port)
* [spalloc_server](#spalloc_server)
* [spalloc_use_proxy](#spalloc_use_proxy)
* [spalloc_user](#spalloc_user)
* [time_scale_factor](#time_scale_factor)
* [turn_off_machine](#turn_off_machine)
* [version](#version)
* [versions](#versions)
* [virtual_board](#virtual_board)
* [width](#width)
### <a name="auto_detect_bmp"></a> auto_detect_bmp
Default: __False__

Only needed for [physical board(s)](#machine_name) with both am Ethernet and BMP cable connected.
If True the assumption is the BMP ip addresss is one less than the [Ethernet](#machine_name)

### <a name="bmp_names"></a> bmp_names
Default: __None__

Only needed for [physical board(s)](#machine_name) with both am Ethernet and BMP cable connected.

format is:
*  bmp_names     = <host>[/(<board-range>|board_id[,board_id]*)
*  <board_range> = <board_id>-<board_id>

where:
* <host> is the hostname or IP address of the BMP
* <board_range> is a range of boards that the BMP can speak to
* <board_id> is the ID of a single board in a frame

Note this no longer supports multiple host nor cabinet or frame

### <a name="clear_routing_tables"></a> clear_routing_tables
Default: __False__

Clears the routing tables when end is called. Normally not needed.

### <a name="clear_tags"></a> clear_tags
Default: __False__

Clears the routing tables when end is called. Normally not needed.

### <a name="disable_advanced_monitor_usage_for_data_in"></a> disable_advanced_monitor_usage_for_data_in
Default: __False__

Truns off the usgae of the extra monitors for data in.
This is now mainly a testing option aa
the code will automatically disable the extra monitors for small simulations where it is not recommnded.

### <a name="down_chips"></a> down_chips
Default: __None__

Testng Option to remove some chips from the Machine. See [Syntax](#down_cores)

### <a name="down_cores"></a> down_cores
Default: __None__

Testng Option to remove some cores from the Machine.

Syntax for specifying a Chip, Core or Link in cfg values

```
format is:
down_cores = <down_core_id>[:<down_core_id]*
<down_core_id> = <chip_x>,<chip_y>,(<core_id>|<core_range>)[,<ip>]
<core_range> = <core_id>-<core_id>]*
down_chips = <down_chip_id>[:<down_chip_id]*
<down_chip_id> = <chip_x>,<chip_y>[,<ip>]
down_links = <down_link_id>:[:<down_link_id>]*
<down_link_id> = <chip_x>,<chip_y>,<link_id>[,<ip>]

where:
<chip_x> is the x-coordinate of a down chip
<chip_x> is the y-coordinate of a down chip
<core_id> is the virtual core ID of a core if > 0 or the physical core if <= 0
<link_id> is the link ID of a link between 0 and 5
<ip> is an OPTIONAL ip address in the 127.0.0.0 format.
If provided the <chip_x> <chip_y> will be considered local to the board with this ip address
```

### <a name="down_links"></a> down_links
Default: __None__

Testng Option to remove some links from the Machine. See [Syntax](#down_cores)

### <a name="enable_advanced_monitor_support"></a> enable_advanced_monitor_support
Default: __True__

Enables the use of advance monitors.
This delegate the transfer of data in and out of the machine to specific ocre.
Highly recommnded unless using a physical board and needing all cores for your simulation to fit.

### <a name="enable_reinjection"></a> enable_reinjection
Default: __True__

Allows for the reinjection of packets if the first send fails.
Highly recommnded unless testing the transceiver.

### <a name="height"></a> height
Default: __None__

Deprecated use [version](#version). Width for a virtual machine.
If used requires [width](#width) and [virtual_board](#virtual_board)

### <a name="ignore_bad_ethernets"></a> ignore_bad_ethernets
Default: __True__

When True if any non ethernet chip claims it has a IP address this is logged and ignored
When False the whole chip is removed

### <a name="json_path"></a> json_path
Default: __None__

A testing option.
Creates a virtual board by reading a machine json file.
If set other [virtual_board](#virtual_board) options are ignored.

### <a name="machine_name"></a> machine_name
Default: __None__

URL to physical board(s). Requires [version](#version)

### <a name="machine_spec_file"></a> machine_spec_file
Default: __None__

This points to a second cfg file to read the machine details from
This allows for easily switching your configs between different baords and spalloc.
While designed for Machine settings can include any cfg setting.
Technically each of the cfg except one pointed to by a machine_spec_file can have this option.
It is read in directly after the pointer file.
We recommend (and support) only using machine_spec_file in the cfg file in your home directory.

### <a name="max_machine_core"></a> max_machine_core
Default: __None__

Testing Option. Decreases claimed per Chip if not None

### <a name="max_sdram_allowed_per_chip"></a> max_sdram_allowed_per_chip
Default: __None__

Test option! Decreases claimed sdram if not None

### <a name="post_simulation_overrun_before_error"></a> post_simulation_overrun_before_error
Default: __5__

Time in seconds that the simulation will wait for each board to be in the expected state.
It is highly likely the core has errored after the default time has passed.

### <a name="remote_spinnaker_url"></a> remote_spinnaker_url
Default: __None__

Used by HPAllocator. Will be a url

### <a name="repair_machine"></a> repair_machine
Default: __False__

Allows for temporary repair/hiding of hardware faults.
This setting should always be False unless an error has been reported on spinnakerusers@googlegroups.com

### <a name="report_waiting_logs"></a> report_waiting_logs
Default: __False__

Debugging option. If True adds logging while the host waits on cores to be in a particular state.

### <a name="reset_machine_on_startup"></a> reset_machine_on_startup
Default: __False__


Will power cycle the boards at startup.
Not needed normally.

### <a name="simulation_time_step"></a> simulation_time_step
Default: __1000__

The time step of the simulations in microseconds.
Ignored if setup is called with a timestep.

### <a name="spalloc_avoid_boards"></a> spalloc_avoid_boards
Default: __None__

An (optional) comma seperated list of ip addresses to avoid.
This is a mainly for temporarily disabling boards that need to be blacklisted/ repaired.

### <a name="spalloc_group"></a> spalloc_group
Default: __None__

The group to allocate the [spalloc](#spalloc_server) usage too.
Ignored if the environment variable NMPI_JOB_ID (and optionaly) NMPI_USER are set.
Also ignored if the current director points to a collab.

### <a name="spalloc_machine"></a> spalloc_machine
Default: __None__

Name of the Spalloc Machine to be used.
Optional unless the [URL](#spalloc_server) points to multiple spalloc manchines.

### <a name="spalloc_port"></a> spalloc_port
Default: __22244__

The port for the [spalloc server](#spalloc_server) if used.

### <a name="spalloc_server"></a> spalloc_server
Default: __None__

Url of the spalloc server.

### <a name="spalloc_use_proxy"></a> spalloc_use_proxy
Default: __True__

Indicates that the spalloc proxy server is needed.
Needed to access spalloc from a different network.
Jupiter notebook users should leave this as set by the server admin.

### <a name="spalloc_user"></a> spalloc_user
Default: __None__

The user for the [spalloc server](#spalloc_server) if used.
Used if not part of the [URL](#spalloc_server).
If neither provided the environment variable SPALLOC_USERS will be tried.
The matching password can only come from the [URL](#spalloc_server) or the environment variable SPALLOC_PASSWORD.

### <a name="time_scale_factor"></a> time_scale_factor
Default: __None__

Multiplicative factor to the machine time step
(does not affect the neuron models accuracy)
Ignored if setup is called with a time_scale_factor

### <a name="turn_off_machine"></a> turn_off_machine
Default: __False__

Adds an optional step to the end of the simulation to turn of [physically connected boards](#machine_name).

### <a name="version"></a> version
Default: __None__

The hardware version of the spinnaker board being used
* version:
   * 3: For a 4 chp board
   * 5: For 1 or more 48 chip boards (including spalloc)
   * 201: For a single chip spinnaker 2 board
   * 248: Fot a 48 chip spinnaker 2 board
* This replaces deprecated "width" and "height" options
* "versions" option is for testing only and picks a version based on python version

### <a name="versions"></a> versions
Default: __None__

Testing Option. Picks a valid version based on python version. Requires [virtual_board](#virtual_board)

### <a name="virtual_board"></a> virtual_board
Default: __False__

If True a virtual board will be used.
Requires [version](#version)

### <a name="width"></a> width
Default: __None__

Deprecated use [version](#version). Width for a virtual machine.
If used requires [height](#height) and [virtual_board](#virtual_board)

# <a name="Database"></a> Database
This section covers the settings for the various databases used.

* [create_database](#create_database)
* [create_routing_info_to_neuron_id_mapping](#create_routing_info_to_neuron_id_mapping)
* [listen_port](#listen_port)
* [notify_hostname](#notify_hostname)
* [notify_port](#notify_port)
* [wait_on_confirmation](#wait_on_confirmation)
* [wait_on_confirmation_timeout](#wait_on_confirmation_timeout)
### <a name="create_database"></a> create_database
Default: __None__

Testing Option.
Overrides auto detection if an [Input output database](#input_output_database) is needed.

### <a name="create_routing_info_to_neuron_id_mapping"></a> create_routing_info_to_neuron_id_mapping
Default: __True__

Adds data abuout the routing to the [Input output database](#input_output_database)
Recommended to keep on unless you are absoltely sure it is not needed.

### <a name="listen_port"></a> listen_port
Default: __None__

Port spinnaker uses to listen to database notifactions

### <a name="notify_hostname"></a> notify_hostname
Default: __localhost__

IP adderess to which spiinaker will send database notifications

### <a name="notify_port"></a> notify_port
Default: __19999__

Port spinnaker uses to send database notifications

### <a name="wait_on_confirmation"></a> wait_on_confirmation
Default: __True__

Testing Option.
Forces the NotificationProtocol to wait for confirmation when it send messages

### <a name="wait_on_confirmation_timeout"></a> wait_on_confirmation_timeout
Default: __10__

Time in seconds for the NotificationProtocol to [wait](#wait_on_confirmation).

# <a name="Mapping"></a> Mapping
Mapping options particularly which algorithms to run and how.

* [compressor](#compressor)
* [delay_support_adder](#delay_support_adder)
* [external_binaries](#external_binaries)
* [info_allocator](#info_allocator)
* [placer](#placer)
* [precompressor](#precompressor)
* [router](#router)
* [router_table_compress_as_far_as_possible](#router_table_compress_as_far_as_possible)
* [routing_table_generator](#routing_table_generator)
* [run_compression_checker](#run_compression_checker)
* [validate_json](#validate_json)
* [validate_routes_uncompressed](#validate_routes_uncompressed)
* [virtual_compressor](#virtual_compressor)
### <a name="compressor"></a> compressor
Default: __PairOnChipRouterCompression__

Which algorithm to use to generate the routing tables.</br>
Supported values are:
* PairOnChipRouterCompression: Recommended!
Looks for pairs with the same destination and tries to merge them.
Make use of the order so late later merges may overlap with earlier ones.
* PairCompressor: On host/ virtual version
* PairUnorderedCompressor: Testing Option which does not make use of the order.
* OrderedCoveringOnChipRouterCompression: Older compressor which attempts to merge all routes with the ame desination at the same time
Rarely more efficient that the Pair compressor.
This is currently tested but not supported
* OrderedCoveringCompressor:
On host version/ virtual version

[Compression may not be needed.](router_table_compress_as_far_as_possible)

### <a name="delay_support_adder"></a> delay_support_adder
Default: __DelaySupportAdder__

Algorthm for adding Delay verteices.</br>
Currently supported options:
* DelaySupportAdder: Adds the standard Delays Vertcies if needed
* None: will skip the adder (Not Recommended) </br></br>

### <a name="external_binaries"></a> external_binaries
Default: __None__

Absolutele path to where user created and combined binaries are located.

### <a name="info_allocator"></a> info_allocator
Default: __ZonedRoutingInfoAllocator__

Which Key and mask allocator to use.</br>
Supported values are:
* GlobalZonedRoutingInfoAllocator: Recommenned for most cases as produces the best results for compression.
* ZonedRoutingInfoAllocator: Less optimized so only use if the global one fails.</br></br>

### <a name="placer"></a> placer
Default: __ApplicationPlacer__

Currently only ApplicationPlacer supported.

### <a name="precompressor"></a> precompressor
Default: __None__

Testing option to add a second compressor before the name one.
Only supported options are None and Ranged.
No known case where compression only works with precompression.

### <a name="router"></a> router
Default: __ApplicationRouter__

Currently only ApplicationRouter supported

### <a name="router_table_compress_as_far_as_possible"></a> router_table_compress_as_far_as_possible
Default: __False__

Testing option. Will request the compressor to run/continue even if the tables are already small enough.

### <a name="routing_table_generator"></a> routing_table_generator
Default: __MergedRoutingTableGenerator__

Which algorithm to use to generate the routing tables</br>
Supported values are:
* MergedRoutingTableGenerator:  Recommenned as usually produces the best results.
* BasicRoutingTableGenerator: Less optimized so only use if the merged one fails.</br></br>

### <a name="compression_checker"></a> run_compression_checker
* key: run_compression_checker 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_compression_checker 
  * value: routing_compression_checker_report.rpt

Runs a check that the compressors worked and repors the results.
Mainly used for testing changes to the algorithms or bugs.

### <a name="validate_json"></a> validate_json
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Runs schema validation on json files created.
Mainly used for testing changes to the algorithms or bugs.

### <a name="validate_routes_uncompressed"></a> validate_routes_uncompressed
Default: __False__

Runs a check that the routing tables are correct before compresssion.
Mainly used for testing changes to the algorithms or bugs.

### <a name="virtual_compressor"></a> virtual_compressor
Default: __PairCompressor__

Which compressor to use when using a [virtual_board](#virtual_board)
As the "OnChip" version will fail!
See [compressor](#compressor) for legal values.
If None the [compressor](#compressor) option is used.

# <a name="Reports"></a> Reports
This section controls the reports being run and written.

* [clear_iobuf_during_run](#clear_iobuf_during_run)
* [default_report_file_path](#default_report_file_path)
* [display_algorithm_timings](#display_algorithm_timings)
* [draw_placements](#draw_placements)
* [draw_placements_on_error](#draw_placements_on_error)
* [extract_iobuf](#extract_iobuf)
* [extract_iobuf_from_binary_types](#extract_iobuf_from_binary_types)
* [extract_iobuf_from_cores](#extract_iobuf_from_cores)
* [keep_data_database](#keep_data_database)
* [keep_dataspec_database](#keep_dataspec_database)
* [keep_input_output_database](#keep_input_output_database)
* [keep_java_log](#keep_java_log)
* [keep_json_files](#keep_json_files)
* [keep_stack_trace](#keep_stack_trace)
* [max_reports_kept](#max_reports_kept)
* [n_profile_samples](#n_profile_samples)
* [network_graph_format](#network_graph_format)
* [path_drift_report](#path_drift_report)
* [path_ignores_report](#path_ignores_report)
* [path_placement_errors_report](#path_placement_errors_report)
* [provenance_report_cutoff](#provenance_report_cutoff)
* [read_graph_provenance_data](#read_graph_provenance_data)
* [read_placements_provenance_data](#read_placements_provenance_data)
* [read_profile_data](#read_profile_data)
* [read_provenance_data_on_end](#read_provenance_data_on_end)
* [read_router_provenance_data](#read_router_provenance_data)
* [remove_errored_folders](#remove_errored_folders)
* [tpath_global_provenance](#tpath_global_provenance)
* [write_algorithm_timings](#write_algorithm_timings)
* [write_application_graph_placer_report](#write_application_graph_placer_report)
* [write_bit_field_compressor_report](#write_bit_field_compressor_report)
* [write_board_chip_report](#write_board_chip_report)
* [write_compressed](#write_compressed)
* [write_compression_comparison](#write_compression_comparison)
* [write_compression_summary](#write_compression_summary)
* [write_compressor_iobuf](#write_compressor_iobuf)
* [write_data_speed_up_reports](#write_data_speed_up_reports)
* [write_energy_report](#write_energy_report)
* [write_expander_iobuf](#write_expander_iobuf)
* [write_fixed_routes_report](#write_fixed_routes_report)
* [write_json_machine](#write_json_machine)
* [write_json_placements](#write_json_placements)
* [write_json_routing_tables](#write_json_routing_tables)
* [write_memory_map_report](#write_memory_map_report)
* [write_network_graph](#write_network_graph)
* [write_network_specification_report](#write_network_specification_report)
* [write_partitioner_reports](#write_partitioner_reports)
* [write_provenance](#write_provenance)
* [write_redundant_packet_count_report](#write_redundant_packet_count_report)
* [write_router_info_report](#write_router_info_report)
* [write_router_reports](#write_router_reports)
* [write_router_summary_report](#write_router_summary_report)
* [write_sdram_usage_report_per_chip](#write_sdram_usage_report_per_chip)
* [write_tag_allocation_reports](#write_tag_allocation_reports)
* [write_text_specs](#write_text_specs)
* [write_uncompressed](#write_uncompressed)
### <a name="clear_iobuf_during_run"></a> clear_iobuf_during_run
Default: __True__

At the end of each run the Chip iobuf can be cleared.
Run after any extraction or if there is no extraction.

### <a name="default_report_file_path"></a> default_report_file_path
Default: __DEFAULT__

Directory into which the reports will be placed
Should either an absolute path or "DEFAULT" to use the current directory
In both cases a "reports" sub directory will be added

### <a name="display_algorithm_timings"></a> display_algorithm_timings
Default: __True__

[Logs](#instantiate) the time each algorithm took.
Timings are always saved in the [global provenance database](#global_provenance)
They may also be [written](#algorithm_timings) to file.

### <a name="placements"></a> draw_placements
* key: draw_placements 
  * value: False
* key: path_placements 
  * value: placements.png

Developer debug option. Requires spinner to be manually installed otherwise is ignored. Not recently tested.

### <a name="placements_on_error"></a> draw_placements_on_error
* key: draw_placements_on_error 
  * value: False
* key: path_placements_on_error 
  * value: placements_error.png

Developer debug option. Requires spinner to be manually installed otherwise is ignored. Not recently tested.

### <a name="extract_iobuf"></a> extract_iobuf
* key: extract_iobuf 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_iobuf_app 
  * value: provenance_data\app_provenance_data
* key: path_iobuf_system 
  * value: provenance_data\system_provenance_data

Reads the iobuf from the cores and saves them dividied by app and system cores.

### <a name="extract_iobuf_from_binary_types"></a> extract_iobuf_from_binary_types
Default: __None__

Comma seperate list of binary names for cores to extract

### <a name="extract_iobuf_from_cores"></a> extract_iobuf_from_cores
Default: __ALL__

Effects what [iobuff is extrracted](#extract_iobuf).

legal Values are:
* All: All cores . Ignores [extract_iobuf_from_binary_types)(extract_iobuf_from_binary_types)
* None: Use only cores specified by [extract_iobuf_from_binary_types)(extract_iobuf_from_binary_types)
* Some [Syntax for some chips](#down_cores)

### <a name="data_database"></a> keep_data_database
* key: keep_data_database 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_data_database 
  * value: data(reset_str).sqlite3

Database file to hold data read back from the machine including [Provenance](#provenance).
Always created as used during the run so this setting determines if it kept at the end.

### <a name="dataspec_database"></a> keep_dataspec_database
* key: keep_dataspec_database 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_dataspec_database 
  * value: ds(reset_str).sqlite3

Database used to hold the data spec (to be) written to the cores.
Always created as used during the run so this setting determines if it kept at the end.

### <a name="input_output_database"></a> keep_input_output_database
* key: keep_input_output_database 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_input_output_database 
  * value: input_output_database.sqlite3

live event connection database. Includes metadata.
Always created as used during the run so this setting determines if it kept at the end.

### <a name="java_log"></a> keep_java_log
* key: keep_java_log 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_java_log 
  * value: jspin.log

Log file always created when useing [Java](#use_java)
This determines if it is kept at the end.

### <a name="json_files"></a> keep_json_files
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

If set False this will delete any json files written at the end of the run.

### <a name="stack_trace"></a> keep_stack_trace
* key: keep_stack_trace 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: tpath_stack_trace 
  * value: stack_trace

If there is an error this is where the stack trace will be recorded.
This determines if it is kept at the end.

### <a name="max_reports_kept"></a> max_reports_kept
Default: __10__

The code will attempt to remove old directories in the [Reports Folder](#default_report_file_path)
if they have finished and/or [possibly errored](#remove_errored_folders).
This controls how many are kept.

### <a name="n_profile_samples"></a> n_profile_samples
Default: __0__

Set to > 0 to allow profiler to gather samples (assuming enabled in the compiled aplx)

### <a name="network_graph_format"></a> network_graph_format
Default: __None__

Format to use to [draw](#network_graph) a large graph
Unless specified [draw](#network_graph) is disabled for large graphs
For small graph the [default format](#network_graph) is used

### <a name="drift_report"></a> path_drift_report
* key: path_drift_report 
  * value: clock_drift.csv
* key: write_drift_report_start 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: write_drift_report_end 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: drift_report_ethernet_only 
  * value: True

Reports the clock drift at the start and/or end of the run.
Either all Chips or justthe ethernet ones.

### <a name="ignores_report"></a> path_ignores_report
Default: __Ignores_report.rpt__

Always written if there is a [down core, chip or link](simulate_down_hardware) declared

### <a name="placement_errors_report"></a> path_placement_errors_report
Default: __placements_error.txt__

Written if and only if there is a placement error.

### <a name="provenance_report_cutoff"></a> provenance_report_cutoff
Default: __20__

If provenace is being [written to the database](#provenance)
this will liit the amount that will be [Logged](#instantiate)

### <a name="read_graph_provenance_data"></a> read_graph_provenance_data
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Reads graph provenance and writes it into the [database](#data_database)

### <a name="read_placements_provenance_data"></a> read_placements_provenance_data
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Reads placements provenance and writes it into the [database](#data_database)

### <a name="read_profile_data"></a> read_profile_data
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Reads profile provenance and writes it into the [database](#data_database)

### <a name="read_provenance_data_on_end"></a> read_provenance_data_on_end
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Reads provenace data at the end and writes it into the [database](#data_database)

### <a name="read_router_provenance_data"></a> read_router_provenance_data
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Reads router provenance and writes it into the [database](#data_database)

### <a name="remove_errored_folders"></a> remove_errored_folders
Default: __True__

If True will also [Remove](#max_reports_kept) the older error runs.

### <a name="global_provenance"></a> tpath_global_provenance
Default: __global_provenance.sqlite3__

The database where provenance is stored.
There is just one database no matter how many runs or resets are done.
This database will hold logging [if instantiated](#instantiate).
This will always hold algorthm timing even if not [displayed](#display_algorithm_timings) or [written](#algorithm_timings).

### <a name="algorithm_timings"></a> write_algorithm_timings
* key: write_algorithm_timings 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: tpath_algorithm_timings 
  * value: algorithm_timings.rpt

Writes a report of the time all algorithms took.
Note this is a global report which covers all runs even after resets).
Timings are always saved in the [global provenance database](#global_provenance)
They may also be [logged](#display_algorithm_timings).

### <a name="application_graph_placer_report"></a> write_application_graph_placer_report
* key: write_application_graph_placer_report 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_application_graph_placer_report_vertex 
  * value: placement_by_vertex_using_graph.rpt
* key: path_application_graph_placer_report_core 
  * value: placement_by_core_using_graph.rpt

Writes both placement reports

### <a name="bit_field_compressor_report"></a> write_bit_field_compressor_report
* key: write_bit_field_compressor_report 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_bit_field_compressor_report 
  * value: bit_field_compressed_summary.rpt

writes the bit rield compressor report.
Run even without bitfield compression.

### <a name="board_chip_report"></a> write_board_chip_report
* key: write_board_chip_report 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_board_chip_report 
  * value: board_chip_report.txt

Writes the reort of the board(s) in use

### <a name="compressed"></a> write_compressed
* key: write_compressed 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_compressed 
  * value: compressed_routing_tables_generated

Writes the compressed routing tables.
Any report for compression may trigger reading these off the machine.
Compression may only be as far as needed [See]router_table_compress_as_far_as_possible) not as far as possible.

### <a name="compression_comparison"></a> write_compression_comparison
* key: write_compression_comparison 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_compression_comparison 
  * value: comparison_of_compressed_uncompressed_routing_tables.rpt

Compares the uncompressed and the compressed routing tables.
See [write_compressed](#compressed)

### <a name="compression_summary"></a> write_compression_summary
* key: write_compression_summary 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_compression_summary 
  * value: compressed_routing_summary.rpt

Write a summary of the compression done.
See [write_compressed](#compressed)

### <a name="compressor_iobuf"></a> write_compressor_iobuf
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Reads and writes the commpressor iobuff.
There will be no iobuf if a host [compressor](#compressor) is used or there is [no need to compress](#router_table_compress_as_far_as_possible)
This will be written to [path_iobuf_system](#iobuf_system)

### <a name="data_speed_up_reports"></a> write_data_speed_up_reports
* key: write_data_speed_up_reports 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_data_speed_up_reports_speeds 
  * value: speeds_gained_in_speed_up_process.rpt
* key: path_data_speed_up_reports_routers 
  * value: routers_used_in_speed_up_process.rpt

Runs the reports relating to [data speed up](#enable_advanced_monitor_support).
In small runs advance monitors may not be used even if enabled in which case there will be no report.

### <a name="energy_report"></a> write_energy_report
* key: write_energy_report 
  * value: False
* key: path_energy_report 
  * value: energy_report_(n_run).rpt

Runs the energy reports.
This includes adding energy monitor cores which will change placements.
Therefor the default value is not [Info or Debug](#Mode)

### <a name="expander_iobuf"></a> write_expander_iobuf
Default: __[Debug](#mode)__

Reads and writes the iobuff from the onchip synapse expander.
Will be written with [System iobuff](#iobuf_system)

### <a name="fixed_routes_report"></a> write_fixed_routes_report
* key: write_fixed_routes_report 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_fixed_routes_report 
  * value: fixed_route_routers

Writes the report for fisxed yours if they are used.
Unlikely to exist in [enable_advanced_monitor_support](#enable_advanced_monitor_support) is False

### <a name="json_machine"></a> write_json_machine
* key: write_json_machine 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_json_machine 
  * value: json_files\machine.json

Write a description of the machine in json format.
May be [Deleted at the end of the run].(keep_json_files)

### <a name="json_placements"></a> write_json_placements
* key: write_json_placements 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_json_placements 
  * value: json_files\placements.json

Writes a description of the placements in json format
May be [Deleted at the end of the run].(keep_json_files)

### <a name="json_routing_tables"></a> write_json_routing_tables
* key: write_json_routing_tables 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_json_routing_tables 
  * value: json_files\routing_tables.json

Writes a description of the routing tables in json format
May be [Deleted at the end of the run].(keep_json_files)

### <a name="memory_map_report"></a> write_memory_map_report
* key: write_memory_map_report 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_memory_map_report_map 
  * value: memory_map_from_processor_to_address_space
* key: path_memory_map_reports 
  * value: memory_map_reports

Writes all the memry map reports. the summary and one per Core..

### <a name="network_graph"></a> write_network_graph
* key: write_network_graph 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_network_graph 
  * value: network_graph.gv

Draws a grpah of the network using graphviz (Which most be installed)

### <a name="network_specification_report"></a> write_network_specification_report
* key: write_network_specification_report 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_network_specification_report 
  * value: network_specification.rpt

Write the details of the network.

### <a name="partitioner_reports"></a> write_partitioner_reports
* key: write_partitioner_reports 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_partitioner_reports 
  * value: partitioned_by_vertex.rpt

Reports how the Application Vertices/ Populations where partitioned into Machine Vertices/ Cores.

### <a name="provenance"></a> write_provenance
Default: __[Info](#mode)__

Reads other provenance and writes it into the [database](#data_database)

### <a name="redundant_packet_count_report"></a> write_redundant_packet_count_report
* key: write_redundant_packet_count_report 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_redundant_packet_count_report 
  * value: redundant_packet_count.rpt

Writes a report showing how many redundant packets where recorded.

### <a name="router_info_report"></a> write_router_info_report
* key: write_router_info_report 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_router_info_report 
  * value: virtual_key_space_information_report.rpt

Write reports showing the keys and masks

### <a name="router_reports"></a> write_router_reports
* key: write_router_reports 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_router_reports 
  * value: edge_routing_info.rpt

Reports the routes used for each partition.

### <a name="router_summary_report"></a> write_router_summary_report
* key: write_router_summary_report 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_router_summary_report 
  * value: routing_summary.rpt

Writes a summary of the routes used per Chip

### <a name="sdram_usage_report_per_chip"></a> write_sdram_usage_report_per_chip
* key: write_sdram_usage_report_per_chip 
  * value: [Info](#mode)
* key: path_sdram_usage_report_per_chip 
  * value: chip_sdram_usage_by_core.rpt

Generates a report on the Sdram usage per Chip and how it was calculated.

### <a name="tag_allocation_reports"></a> write_tag_allocation_reports
* key: write_tag_allocation_reports 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_tag_allocation_reports_host 
  * value: tags.rpt
* key: path_tag_allocation_reports_machine 
  * value: tags_on_machine.txt

writes both tag reports.

### <a name="text_specs"></a> write_text_specs
* key: write_text_specs 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_text_specs 
  * value: data_spec_text_files

Writes a text version of the dataspecs.
Note: The [database](#data_database) is what is actually used for loading the data specs.

### <a name="uncompressed"></a> write_uncompressed
* key: write_uncompressed 
  * value: [Debug](#mode)
* key: path_uncompressed 
  * value: routing_tables_generated

Writes the uncompressed routing tables.

# <a name="Buffers"></a> Buffers
This section control if runs are divided into smaller runs and how.

* [minimum_auto_time_steps](#minimum_auto_time_steps)
* [use_auto_pause_and_resume](#use_auto_pause_and_resume)
### <a name="minimum_auto_time_steps"></a> minimum_auto_time_steps
Default: __1000__

If using [Auto pause loops](#use_auto_pause_and_resume)
This will guarantee a minimum time of each of the loops.
This will cause the cause the partititioner to divide the vertex/Population over enough cores.

### <a name="use_auto_pause_and_resume"></a> use_auto_pause_and_resume
Default: __True__

For very long runs (that would run out of memory)
this will split the run into multiple shorted runs
with data extraction between them.
As no affect for runs that do not need this.

# <a name="Mode"></a> Mode
Semantic sugar for enabling lots of reports at once.

* [mode](#mode)
* [violate_1ms_wall_clock_restriction](#violate_1ms_wall_clock_restriction)
### <a name="mode"></a> mode
Default: __Production__

Mode allow to globally turn on groups of reports.
* Mode will never turn off a report set to True in the cfg file
* Only the value from the last cfg file read is used.
   * Default file
   * Home directory
   * Script directory
* Mode acts after all cfg files have been read
* The values of mode supported are:
   * Production: Does not turn on any cfg options.
All cfg values of "info" and "debug" will be replaced with False
This is the recommended value for users not interested in reports.
   * Info: Turns on the the most import reports.
All cfg values of "info" are replaced with True while "debug" will be replaced with False
This is the recommended value or users interested in the main reports.
   * Debug: Turns on all reports except ones which change the Placements
All cfg values of "info" and "debug" will be replaced with True
This is the value used by some tests.
   * All: Testing option. Likely to be removed.
* To change what is included in each mode change the values True, Info or Debug
* Warning changing these values to False may break some tests.

### <a name="violate_1ms_wall_clock_restriction"></a> violate_1ms_wall_clock_restriction
Default: __False__

Used if [time_step](#simulation_time_step) * (timescale)[time_scale_factor] < 1000 as this may result in errors.

# <a name="EnergyMonitor"></a> EnergyMonitor
Setting for the [Energy Monitor](#energy_report)

* [n_samples_per_recording_entry](#n_samples_per_recording_entry)
* [sampling_frequency](#sampling_frequency)
### <a name="n_samples_per_recording_entry"></a> n_samples_per_recording_entry
Default: __100__

The number of smaples taken in each recording of the [Energy Monitor](#energy_report).

### <a name="sampling_frequency"></a> sampling_frequency
Default: __10__

How often [Energy Monitor](#energy_report) will sample, in microseconds

# <a name="Java"></a> Java
This section controls the seetting to active the use of Java

* [java_call](#java_call)
* [java_jar_path](#java_jar_path)
* [java_properties](#java_properties)
* [java_spinnaker_path](#java_spinnaker_path)
* [path_json_java_placements](#path_json_java_placements)
* [use_java](#use_java)
### <a name="java_call"></a> java_call
Default: __java__

Call to start a [Java](#use_java) process.
If there is no jdk../bin in your class path this must include the full path

### <a name="java_jar_path"></a> java_jar_path
Default: __None__

Indirect method to find the jar file for [Java](#use_java) to run.
Should only be used if [java_spinnaker_path](#java_spinnaker_path) and its default can not be used

### <a name="java_properties"></a> java_properties
Default: __None__

Properties flag to be passed into every Java call.
Unlikely to be needed unless Testing or debugging.

Default logging level is info so NO properties needed

Each Property must start with the -D flag
To turn on debug level logging (lots)
java_properties=-Dlogging.level=DEBUG

Multiple properties are supported.
Properties must be separated with a space and without quotes.
ex: java_properties=-Dspinnaker.compare.download -Dlogging.level=DEBUG

Supported properties are:
* spinnaker.compare.download:  enables comparisons of multiple download methods; slow
* spinnaker.parallel_tasks:    how many downloads to do in parallel; default: 4
* logging.level:  defaults to INFO; DEBUG is also useful
* logging.udp    enables low-level logging of UDP traffic; produces a lot of output
* spinnaker.scp_timeout       how long to wait for SCP replies from
SpiNNaker, in milliseconds, which may need to
be raised on very busy networks; default: 1000

### <a name="java_spinnaker_path"></a> java_spinnaker_path
Default: __None__

Inidrect method to find the jar file for [Java](#use_java) to run.
Absolute path to where the JavaSpiNNaker git repository is located.
This must point to a local copy of
https://github.com/SpiNNakerManchester/JavaSpiNNaker
It must also have been built!
If none it will be assumed to be in the same parent directory as SpiNNFrontEndCommon
Note: Do not quote even if path has spaces as these added by subprocess.call

### <a name="json_java_placements"></a> path_json_java_placements
Default: __json_files\java_placements.json__

Path to the json file with the placement information needed by [Java](#use_javaa).

### <a name="use_java"></a> use_java
Default: __False__

Contorls if the sending of the data in and out is delegated to Java.
Requires additional setup but will be faster especially for jobs using more than one board.

# <a name="Simulation"></a> Simulation
The section covers settings which control how the models behave.

* [drop_late_spikes](#drop_late_spikes)
* [error_on_non_spynnaker_pynn](#error_on_non_spynnaker_pynn)
* [incoming_spike_buffer_size](#incoming_spike_buffer_size)
* [n_colour_bits](#n_colour_bits)
* [ring_buffer_sigma](#ring_buffer_sigma)
* [spikes_per_second](#spikes_per_second)
* [transfer_overhead_clocks](#transfer_overhead_clocks)
### <a name="drop_late_spikes"></a> drop_late_spikes
Default: __False__

performance limiter to throw away packets not processed in a given time step

### <a name="error_on_non_spynnaker_pynn"></a> error_on_non_spynnaker_pynn
Default: __True__

Whether to error or just warn on non-spynnaker-compatible PyNN

### <a name="incoming_spike_buffer_size"></a> incoming_spike_buffer_size
Default: __256__

The amount of space to reserve for incoming spikes

### <a name="n_colour_bits"></a> n_colour_bits
Default: __4__

The number of "colour" bits to use by default.  This is used to account for
delays over the network that are bigger than 1 time step

### <a name="ring_buffer_sigma"></a> ring_buffer_sigma
Default: __5__

The number of standard deviations from the mean to account for in
the ring buffer in terms of how much safety in precision vs overflowing the
end user is willing to risk

### <a name="spikes_per_second"></a> spikes_per_second
Default: __30__

Maximum spikes per second of any neuron (spike rate in Hertz)
Used by all neurons that need this for planning, unless a different value is provided.

### <a name="transfer_overhead_clocks"></a> transfer_overhead_clocks
Default: __200__

The overhead to add to the transfer clocks
when using a split synapse neuron model

# <a name="Recording"></a> Recording
Section for the sending of live spikes.

* [live_spike_host](#live_spike_host)
* [live_spike_port](#live_spike_port)
### <a name="live_spike_host"></a> live_spike_host
Default: __0.0.0.0__

Host for the Live Packe tGather

### <a name="live_spike_port"></a> live_spike_port
Default: __17895__

Port for the Live Packe tGather

# <a name="report_files"></a> Report Files
  * [Ignores_report.rpt](##ignores_report)
  * [algorithm_timings.rpt](##algorithm_timings)
  * [bit_field_compressed_summary.rpt](##bit_field_compressor_report)
  * [board_chip_report.txt](##board_chip_report)
  * [chip_sdram_usage_by_core.rpt](##sdram_usage_report_per_chip)
  * [clock_drift.csv](##drift_report)
  * [comparison_of_compressed_uncompressed_routing_tables.rpt](##compression_comparison)
  * [compressed_routing_summary.rpt](##compression_summary)
  * [compressed_routing_tables_generated](##compressed)
  * [data(reset_str).sqlite3](##data_database)
  * [data_spec_text_files](##text_specs)
  * [ds(reset_str).sqlite3](##dataspec_database)
  * [edge_routing_info.rpt](##router_reports)
  * [energy_report_(n_run).rpt](##energy_report)
  * [fixed_route_routers](##fixed_routes_report)
  * [global_provenance.sqlite3](##global_provenance)
  * [input_output_database.sqlite3](##input_output_database)
  * [json_files\java_placements.json](##json_java_placements)
  * [json_files\machine.json](##json_machine)
  * [json_files\placements.json](##json_placements)
  * [json_files\routing_tables.json](##json_routing_tables)
  * [jspin.log](##java_log)
  * [memory_map_from_processor_to_address_space](##memory_map_report)
  * [memory_map_reports](##memory_map_report)
  * [network_graph.gv](##network_graph)
  * [network_specification.rpt](##network_specification_report)
  * [partitioned_by_vertex.rpt](##partitioner_reports)
  * [placement_by_core_using_graph.rpt](##application_graph_placer_report)
  * [placement_by_vertex_using_graph.rpt](##application_graph_placer_report)
  * [placements.png](##placements)
  * [placements_error.png](##placements_on_error)
  * [placements_error.txt](##placement_errors_report)
  * [provenance_data\app_provenance_data](##extract_iobuf)
  * [provenance_data\system_provenance_data](##extract_iobuf)
  * [redundant_packet_count.rpt](##redundant_packet_count_report)
  * [routers_used_in_speed_up_process.rpt](##data_speed_up_reports)
  * [routing_compression_checker_report.rpt](##compression_checker)
  * [routing_summary.rpt](##router_summary_report)
  * [routing_tables_generated](##uncompressed)
  * [speeds_gained_in_speed_up_process.rpt](##data_speed_up_reports)
  * [stack_trace](##stack_trace)
  * [tags.rpt](##tag_allocation_reports)
  * [tags_on_machine.txt](##tag_allocation_reports)
  * [virtual_key_space_information_report.rpt](##router_info_report)


 # <a name="notes"></a> Notes for Developers
<!-- Copied from spinn_utilities/configs/notes.md -->
This section is aimed at developers writing code that uses cfg settings or adding new ones
* cfg rules
  * Section names are case-sensitive with the recommend format being a single Capitalized word.
  * Option names for users are not case or underscore sensitive. 
  * In code all options names must be exact matches (case and underscores). 
      The recommended format is all lower with words seperated by underscore.
  * Any cfg option used must be declared in the default files
  * All cfg options declared must be used
  * All cfg options must only be declared in one default file
  * All cfg options keys should be unique even between sections and not be section names.
    * Section "Mode" and option "mode" are a handled exception. 
* Special @ options
  * @: Adds documentation for this section
  * @(option): Adds documentation for this option
  * @group_(source_option) = target_option: The key and value of the source_option 
    will be grouped with the target_option. This can be N - N,
    but transative is not supported. 

* Start of option keys with special meanings.
    (t)path ones will be removed and auto grouped with the matching one.
    If and only if the part after the first underscore is an exact match.
  * draw_: Flag to say file(s) should be created
  * keep_: Flag to say if files should be kept at the end of the run. These ffiles may still be created.
  * path_: Path to a file to be placed in the run folder
  * run_: Flag to say something should run which may create files
  * tpath_: Path to a file to be placed in the timestamp folder
  * write_: Flag to say file/report should be written

* Notes on cfg documentation.
  * Should be designed for an md file.
  * Can be multline. Just indent from the key.
  * Indent is stripped out.
  * Newlines are kept but remember are often ignored in md files
  * Use \</br> at the end of a line (or leave a blank line) if a new line is needed.
  * Use \t* to add a sub bullet. (Will replace \t(s) with spaces)
  * Use \t (without the *) for a real none bullet indent. (Will replace \t with \&nbsp;\&nbsp;)
  * Supports md links in the \[Title\]\(Link\) format. 
      * Link can be any cfg option key except those tagged with @group.
      * The # reguired by markdown will be added if needed.
      * Where keys are auto grouped any of these can be used.
      * Link can be an external url.

